Jesse Cunningham
Vocabulary check  September 21, 2016

1.  A variable is a placeholder used to store a piece of information

2.  A variable must be decalred a certain type - integer (int), 
    decimal (float or double), single character (char), string     
    (String), or the boolean true/false variable (boolean).
    Any input value that is not compatible with the variable type
    leads to an error.

3.  A variable can be assigned an acceptable value at any time.
    The assigned value will then replace the variable name when 
    the name shows up.

4. Yes, a variable can be declared and assigned on the same line.
   It is often useful to do this to simplify code.

5. No, a method may not return more than one value.  

6. If there is no value returned for a method, it is typed "VOID."
   The main method does not return any value after it completes.

7.  *code blocks*  come back

8.  A method signature is the name and the parameters.  For example, 
    I wrote a method for the blackjack lab called 
    public static int assign_value (String str)
    to assign a card value to a given text.  The method signature
    is just "assign_value(String str)".

9.  A method parameter is what the method needs to return a value.
    Sometimes nothing is needed, like generating random numbers.
    Other times the method takes the input and manipulates it to 
    get the outcome.  A concatenate method needs at least two  
    inputs     to be of any use,  such as 
    public static String concat (String A String B) 

10.  A method can have any number of parameters, although larger 
     numbers would make it harder to understand and easier to make a 
     mistake.

11.  No, the parameters do not need to be of the same type.  For  
     example, the concatenate function can just as easily attach    
     numbers to a text string, such as
     public static String concat (String A, int B)
     A program like this might generate license plate numbers, for 
     example.

12.  The import keyword pulls in packages that Java does not have 
     access to unless you say that you need it.  Many of the Math
     packages are pre-loaded, so they don't need to be imported.
     Packages like Random and Scanner are often not needed, so you
     need to ask for them specifically.

13.  A Java class should be written in PascalCase, that is, as one 
     "word" but with the first letter of every readable English word
     capitalized.  I often forget to capitalize words like "and",  
     "or", and "of", though.

14.  A Java variable is usually written in camelCase, that is still as 
     one "word", but with every first leter captialized *except*
     the first one.  This helps identify what can be manipulated 
     (variable) and what can't (class).

15.  I think that a method name is always lowercase with "_" separating
     the different words, although I might be wrong.  I've also seen
     single capitalized words (like Buzz() used in class) or 
     PascalCase.  

16.  The method body manipulates the input to get the return value.
     Any working variables must be declared.  For example, we did
     add_two(double x,double y) for one of the HW assignments.  The 
     new double variable "sum" would be declared, calculated, and
     returned.

17.  An array is an indexed list of values all of the same type.

18.  It is preferable to use a for loop if you know how many iterations
     the loop will have or if this value is easy to find.  If there is
     a complicated operation to determine when to terminate, the
     do/while or while loop is a better choice.

19.  A do-while loop runs the process once before checking the  
     condition.  A while loop may not even execute once.  For example, 
     a do-while loop for the process below would be a poor choice (for 
     you ... I would like it just fine.)
     
     do  {
     myWealth +=1,000,000;
     myNumberOfMansions--
         }
      while (myNumberOfMansions >0);

20.  A switch statement is a cleaner way to conduct a nested 
     "if else-if" statement.  It only works if the conditions checked
     are equality.  Switch statements came in useful for the Blackjack
     labs and the Weekday Calculator.

21.  The scope of a variable is where it is recognized.  Any variable
     declared inside a method does not exist outside of the method 
     itself.  In my add_two(double x, double y) method from earlier, 
     I could not use "sum" in the main class.  Similarly, I couldn't
     pull in any other variable from main into add_two except the ones
     I specifically requested.


